Update CONTRIBUTING and README (#402)
jamulussoftware/jamulussoftware.github.io: README.md

# Jamulus Website

This is the content repository for [jamulus.io](https://jamulus.io). Text appearing in the Jamulus software application itself is part of the [main code repository](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus). The web site is built with Jekyll and Fox-CSS.

### Please also note that discussions should be in English so as to be open to all. 

## Making changes to the English version

> (See the translation process later in this document if you want to get involved with that.)

Reviewer: Maybe we should already say here that almost all changes (like additions, clarifications,...) should be made to English first.

> Make a fork of the Jamulus repository (button at [top right here](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamuluswebsite)). In your fork, you can edit the website pages (or of course use git on the command line if you prefer). When you are done, create a pull request that we will review, translate and publish in the next release.

Reviewer: In theory, you could also edit the page directly. GH will then create a fork for you.

> To view the website offline one your own machine, you will need to clone it locally and use Jekyll to build it. Please ask on [in the discussions](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus/discussions) for help with this if necessary.

Reviewer: Can't we link the official jekyll page here? I don't think that we should redirect users to the discussion forums if set up instructions are available elsewhere.

Author: I found the Jekyll docs pretty hard to get into, and to do basic editing you don't in fact need to know much about it really other than the first install of the Ruby stuff. Since we can't know what level of experience people have with any of this I think we should just let people orientate with us if they feel the need.

Reviewer: Ok. But I think if people actively want to contribute and can't get it set up, they will naturally ask on the forums.

## Formatting and style

> We use GitHub markdown to format the basic text. Have a look at the markdown in existing pages for examples. 

Reviewer: Maybe link a page?

Note that we use British English spelling and grammar conventions. 

> Adding pictures

Reviewer 2: Should this be a heading?

Use the `{{site.url}}` variable to call an existing image in the corresponding directory for that language. This ensures the correct URL is used:

`<img src="{{site.url}}/assets/img/en-screenshots/mixer-channles.png" …` 

If you want to add a new image, use .png format if possible, and if it’s not a screenshot, ask about where you should store it. Localised images must go in a directory for that language (see the example for English, above).

## Translating

### Please note: As of April 2021 we are only translating the following sections of the website:

- Home page
- Getting Started
- Installation pages

> For translating text in the Jamulus application itself, please see this guide.?

Author: Need to add link to this once it goes live.

> We collect changes to the English version of the site on a "changes" branch first. We then freeze changes prior to a Jamulus software release, and do a translation "sprint" over a couple of weeks when all translation takes place.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
We collect changes to the English version of the site on the "changes" branch first. We then freeze changes prior to a Jamulus software release, and do a translation "sprint" over a couple of weeks when all translation takes place.
```

Maybe even link the changes branch?

### Here’s the overall workflow

1. Changes are first made to en-*.md files and committed to the “changes” branch.
1. Once we’ve agreed to release the changes to production (usually just before a software release), we then create GitHub issues for each language, tagged for that release. You can ask questions about the work there.

> 1. We then squash merge changes to a “translation_[versionNo]” branch.

Reviewer 2: Hrm, should this document the process for contributors only or for the site admins as well?
For contributors, "squashing" might be overly technical.
For admins, it lacks details how to do that, IMO.

Would this be correct and appropriate?
```suggestion
1. We then create a “translation_[versionNo]” branch which contains all relevant changes in a single commit for easy translation (`git branch translation_[versionNo] release && git checkout translation_[versionNo] && git merge --squash changes`).
```

Author: Ah yes, we don't want overlap between admin and contrib docs. Good catch (some of this was written when we were talking about the admin stuff).

> 1. Translators for each language then update any affected files in their language and open pull requests to merge them into a new branch for the release. Those pull requests are linked to the relevant GitHub issue in step 2.

Reviewer 2: Is this the "translation_[versionNo]" branch from the previous item or another one? If so, how is it named and what is it based on (`release`?)?

Author: I assumed it was the "target release" - there was some debate about the naming but I don;t know where that got to.

Reviewer: I think it's the target release?

Reviewer 2: What do you mean by target release? Some `r3_7_0` branch? I didn't realize we had one for the website. ;o

Author: Yes, sorry forgot to mention. We release the site in line with app releases.

Reviewer: Yes. The translations are made on a separate branch to not publish English and all other languages in one fly while still being able to make changes on the changes branch.

Author: I'll make that clearer by referring to "the translation_[versionNo]” branch.

> 1. When all translations are merged (issues will then close automatically), we merge that new branch into the trunk.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
1. When all translations are merged (issues will then close automatically), we merge that new branch into the `release`.
```

`trunk` sounds SVN-like? :)

### Points to note

> Each page on the site has a .md or .html language suffixed version.  Most of the website content is in \_includes/wiki/[langCode]. These files must be translated in order not to break the site. The homepage (https://jamulus.io/) is located in the repo root and named 1-[langCode]-index.html

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Each page on the site has a .md or .html language suffixed version.  Most of the website content is in /wiki/[langCode]. Some, which need to be translated in order not to break the site are in \_includes/wiki/[langCode]. The homepage (https://jamulus.io/) is located in the repo root and named 1-[langCode]-index.html
```

Please do not add new or significantly modified content to a non-English .md or .html file. All changes must be made on the changes branch in English **first** after being [discussed here](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus/discussions).

> Please make sure you are aware of what stage of the workflow we are currently at by monitoring the [project board](https://github.com/orgs/jamulussoftware/projects/2), and on the Discord (or Matrix) discussion channel that you will be invited to join. This is where relevant deadlines and information will be posted during the translation sprint.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Please make sure you are aware of what stage of the workflow we are currently at by monitoring the [project board](https://github.com/orgs/jamulussoftware/projects/2), and on the Discord (or Matrix) discussion channel that you will be invited to join if you're a translator. This is where relevant deadlines and information will be posted during the translation sprint.
```

> Pull requests for translation should have a title which looks like this:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Pull requests for translations should have a title which looks like this:
```
?

`[Tag (Translation)][language code (e.g. en)] {short description of your changes}`

## Adding a new language

> Make sure to add the language to the \_config.yml file (in the languages array.)  At a minimum, the main includes for the wiki (see \_includes/wiki/) have to be translated.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Make sure to add the language to the \_config.yml file (in the languages array).  At a minimum, the main includes for the wiki (see \_includes/wiki/) have to be translated.
```

- Getting Started
- Installation pages

> For translating text in the Jamulus application itself, please see [TRANSLATING.md](https://github.com/jamulussoftware/jamulus/blob/master/)

Reviewer 3: Is that link _the_ link or just sort of getting there?

Author: I believe in iterative development.

Reviewer 3: Don't worry - I do the same with my real time text chat messages... :)  (Edit is a very useful tool.  Preview is overrated.)
